jdurk
=====
My first repository on GitHub
-----------------------------

                                      Presentation of Gephi graph.
                                      ===========================
                                      
	For this assignment, we have been asked to dissect the graph we have submitted to our ePoftfolio and demonstrate an understanding of using Gephi and the tools within the software. In doing this, an outline of what Gephi is will be given, and how one gets from a big mass to making such a graph. An understanding of the tools used will also be given in this, as one cannot go from the big mass to a pretty graph without using them.

	Gephi is a software where one can take their Facebook, or any other social media platform, and extract its data for further analysis. For this module, it required or class to download Gephi, and if not installed already, download Java as it is a Java based platform. We then signed into Facebook, and searched for the Netvizz application to extract our data. Once you opened Gephi, and opened the Netvizz file within, it showed, depending on how many connections you had, a graph. In my case, I had nine hundred and twenty connections, so I knew I had work to do to make a clear and concise graph as what appeared on the screen was a concrete black mass, and that was before labels were added.

	First off, to make me graph easier to read, the nodes were given labels, so that the names could be read. Then, it was time to differentiate them. As there were many connections in this graph, instead of running modularity at the normal rate, it was turned down to 0.01. In doing this, there could be many more connections made, and the difference between the nodes with more connections and less connections would be made simpler to read.

	Next, was to give the graph a layout, as everything was still clustered on top of each other. The layout chosen was Force Atlas 2. This layout spread the graph out, clustering common nodes together. In this I had four major clusters, my home friends, my American friends, my undergraduate degree friends, and finally my American friends. As I came from a small town, the home cluster was heaving. The next thing to do was to make this graph small and more readable. For this, one goes to the filters one clicks on the topology submenu, and in the options given underneath I chose degree range. From using modularity earlier on, the different colour represents the common areas between nodes. I chose to keep it a low degree range to try and make this graph less messy. To do this the range was set from twenty nine to fifty six. This gave me smaller clusters, and also included other interesting inclusions. There were nodes sparsely in the middle, indicating loose ties to these clusters, which contained nodes from the earlier clusters mentioned above. Before submitting, in the preview section, the node labels were made clearer so as when being viewed, it was much clearer who had made it into the edited graph. To say I was surprised at some included in this graph would be an understatement. </p>

	The degree of some of these nodes were few and far between, whereas some had heavily congested connection feeds, there were some included that had no connections either. The heavier the connection feed the greater influence one would have on their social media platform.

	This assignment is to show how since the beginning of the module we have progressed with Gephi. WE were asked to make a graph that would be in line with Scneidermann’s ‘Netvizz Nirvana’, which I have completed and submitted to my Blackboard ePortfolio. To say I have a great understanding of Gephi would not be telling the full truth. I have completed tasks, but even with class and the online tutorials, I am still learning how to use this platform to its full potential. In hindsight, I made a readable graph, and it was in line with the guidelines given. My awareness of Gephi is rising, and it soon will not continue to be a problem.
